Passive Information Gathering
(also known as Open-source Intelligence or
OSINT),
is the process of collecting openly
available information about a target,
generally without any direct interaction
with that target.
There are a variety of resources and tools
we can use to gather this information
and the process is cyclical rather than
linear.
In other words, the “next step” of any
stage of the process
depends on what we find during the
previous steps,
creating “cycles” of processes.
The ultimate goal of passive information
gathering is to obtain information
that clarifies or expands an attack
surface,
helps us conduct a successful phishing
campaign,
or supplements other penetration testing
steps such as password guessing.
Before we begin, we need to define passive
information gathering.
There are two different schools of
thought on what constitutes
“passive” in this context.
In the strictest interpretation, we never
communicate with the target directly.
For example, we could rely on third
parties for information,
but we wouldn’t access any of the target’s
systems or servers.
In a looser interpretation, we might
interact with the target,
but only as a normal Internet user would.
For example, if the target’s website
allows us to register for an account,
we could do that.
However, under this interpretation
we would not test the website for
vulnerabilities during this phase.
In this module, we will adopt this latter,
less rigid interpretation for our
approach.